# Glomeruli-Identification-in-Renal-Biopsy-using-Deep-Learning-Approaches
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9914279

## Abstract
Deep learning algorithms are having a significant influence on the health sector. The digitization of biopsy data in the form of Whole slide images (WSIs) has enabled the automation of illness prediction and detection in the human body. One use of deep learning in healthcare is the identification of Glomeruli. Glomeruli are blood vessel clusters that enter the kidneys and act as blood filters. Each kidney has around one million Glomeruli. Glomerulosclerosis is a sign of a number of chronic and end-stage renal disorders. Glomerulosclerosis is a type of renal damage induced by scarring of the Glomeruli, which is referred to be sclerotic in nature. Typically, glomerular disorders cause glomerular damage by allowing protein and red blood cells to seep into urine. It is a sign of a number of chronic and end-stage renal disorders. Identification of sclerotic Glomeruli helps in assessing the functioning of the kidneys and can aid nephropathology research. The manual identification and classification of Glomeruli from microscopy images requires highly trained experts and is manual, labor intensive and nonstandardized. The counting of Glomeruli is a tedious and time consuming process. Hence, there is a need for automation in this field which can be addressed with the help of state of the art segmentation and classification algorithms. This paper proposes a UNet based segmentation model followed by an Inception V3 architecture for the classification of Glomeruli into sclerosed and normal. Comparison with other UNet architectures is carried out and the results show that our system has performed better achieving an overall accuracy of about 96%.

## Datasets
Our proposed scheme is divided into two modules: segmentation and classification. The system architecture of the proposed work is shown in Fig. 1. Annotations of the glomerular regions in the renal data is required for segmenting Glomeruli from Whole Slide Images (WSI). Hence, the HuBMAP dataset which includes images of eleven fresh frozen type and nine Formalin Fixed Paraffin Embedded (FFPE) Periodic acid–Schiff (PAS) type kidney images are used [14]. Glomeruli FTU annotations exist for all 20 tissue samples. The dataset is comprised of very large (500MB - 5GB) TIFF files. The training set has a collection of eight renal images and the test set has a collection of five renal images. Annotations in both RLE-encoded and unencoded (JSON) formats are included in the training set. Fig. 2 shows a sample image “aaa6a05cc.tiff” from the HuBMAP dataset to visualize the glomeruli and the anatomical structures. The Glomeruli are represented as red circles and the blue, green and red lines represent the Cortex, Medulla and Outer Stripe. The annotations represent Glomeruli segmentations. However, this dataset does not possess the labels necessary to classify the segmented Glomeruli into sclerosed and normal. Hence, we make use of the AIDPATH dataset [15] presented by Bueno, G et al. Raw data comprising 31 WSI in SVS format constitute the dataset. At a magnification of 20x, the WSI ranges in size from 21651 x 10498 pixels to 49799 x 32359 pixels. The detected Glomeruli are also labelled as sclerosed and normal (0 and 1 respectively). In PNG format, there are 2340 images totally with a single Glomerulus, 1170 normal Glomeruli, along with 1170 sclerosed Glomeruli. Fig. 3 shows a sample of the normal and sclerotic Glomeruli that is present in the AIDPATH dataset.
